README.md, before:

# DBSubsetter

DBSubsetter is a tool for taking a logically consistent subset of a relational database.

Starting with a base condition specifying a set of rows from one or more tables, it respects foreign key constraints by recursively fetching the "parents" and (optionally) the "children" of those rows.

This is useful for creating local development and testing datasets.
It can also be used to export the data belonging to a particular set of users.


## Project Goals

_High performance_: Optimized for fast runtimes on large datasets.

_Deterministic_: Identical inputs yield identical outputs. Random subsets are possible, but only if purposely configured.

_Do one thing well_: A tiny codebase with a highly focused and well-tested set of features.


## Supported Databases

DBSubsetter has been tested against recent versions of PostgreSQL, MySQL, and Microsoft SQL Server.

Please reach out by opening a GitHub ticket if you would like support for a different database vendor.


## Download and Usage Instructions

1. Load an empty schema from your "origin" database into your "target" database. See vendor-specific instructions for [Postgres](docs/pre_subset_postgres.md), [MySQL](docs/pre_subset_mysql.md), and [Microsoft SQL Server](docs/pre_subset_ms_sql_server.md).
 
2. Download the DBSubsetter.jar file from our [latest release](https://github.com/bluerogue251/DBSubsetter/releases/latest) and run it with Java 8:

```bash
# Download the DBSubsetter.jar file
$ wget https://github.com/bluerogue251/DBSubsetter/releases/download/v1.0.0-beta.4/DBSubsetter.jar --output-document /path/to/DBSubsetter.jar
 
# Show explanation and examples of how to configure multiple schemas, 
# multiple base queries, missing foreign or primary keys, columns to exclude,
# vendor-specific JDBC connection strings, etc.
$ java -jar /path/to/DBSubsetter.jar --help

# Once you are comfortable with the syntax and options, run DBSubsetter for real
$ java -jar /path/to/DBSubsetter.jar \
    --schemas schema_1,schema_2 \
    --originDbConnStr "jdbc:<driverName>://<originConnectionString>" \
    --targetDbConnStr "jdbc:<driverName>://<targetConnectionString>" \
    --baseQuery "your_schema.users ::: id % 100 = 0 ::: includeChildren" \
    --keyCalculationDbConnectionCount 8 \
    --dataCopyDbConnectionCount 8
```

3. After DBSubsetter exits, follow vendor-specific instructions for [Postgres](docs/post_subset_postgres.md), [MySQL](docs/post_subset_mysql.md), and [Microsoft SQL Server](docs/post_subset_ms_sql_server.md).


## Contributing

Contributions of all kinds are welcome!
Feel free to open an issue or a pull request on the project [GitHub page](https://github.com/bluerogue251/DBSubsetter).

Please follow our [code of conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) when contributing.


## Related Projects

DBSubsetter was inspired by
[Jailer](http://jailer.sourceforge.net/home.htm) and
[rdbms-subsetter](https://github.com/18F/rdbms-subsetter).
Other related resources include
[db_subsetter](https://github.com/lostapathy/db_subsetter), 
[DataBee](https://www.databee.com/),
[pg_sample](https://github.com/mla/pg_sample),
[DATPROF](http://www.datprof.com/products/datprof-subset/),
[abridger](https://github.com/freewilll/abridger),
[postgres-subset](https://github.com/BeautifulDestinations/postgres-subset), and
[CA Data Subset](https://docops.ca.com/ca-test-data-manager/4-2/en/provisioning-test-data/subset-production-data).

DBSubsetter is written in [Scala](https://www.scala-lang.org/) using
[Akka Streams](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/2.5.8/stream/index.html?language=scala),
[Chronicle-Queue](https://github.com/OpenHFT/Chronicle-Queue), and
[scopt](https://github.com/scopt/scopt).
[Slick](http://slick.lightbend.com/) is used for testing.

## License

DBSubsetter is released under the [MIT License](LICENSE.txt).

Commit message:

Enforce scalafmt code style check on production code (#148)

README.md, after:

# DBSubsetter

DBSubsetter is a tool for taking a logically consistent subset of a relational database.

Starting with a given set of rows from one or more tables, it respects foreign key constraints
by recursively fetching the "parents" and (optionally) the "children" of those rows.

This is useful for creating local development and testing datasets.
It can also be used to export the data belonging to a particular set of users.


## Project Goals

_Support large datasets_: designed for stability when handling large datasets.

_Deterministic_: identical inputs yield identical outputs.

_Do one thing well_: a tiny codebase focused exclusively on core subsetting features.


## Supported Databases

DBSubsetter has been tested against recent versions of PostgreSQL, MySQL, and Microsoft SQL Server.

Please reach out by opening a GitHub ticket if you would like support for a different database vendor.


## Download and Usage Instructions

1. Load an empty schema from your "origin" database into your "target" database.
   Follow vendor-specific instructions for:
     * [Postgres](docs/pre_subset_postgres.md)
     * [MySQL](docs/pre_subset_mysql.md)
     * [Microsoft SQL Server](docs/pre_subset_ms_sql_server.md)
 
2. Use Java 8 or above to run our
[latest release](https://github.com/bluerogue251/DBSubsetter/releases/latest):

```bash
# Download the DBSubsetter.jar file
$ wget https://github.com/bluerogue251/DBSubsetter/releases/download/v1.0.0-beta.4/DBSubsetter.jar --output-document /path/to/DBSubsetter.jar
 
# Show explanation and examples of how to configure multiple schemas, 
# multiple base queries, missing foreign or primary keys, columns to exclude,
# vendor-specific JDBC connection strings, etc.
$ java -jar /path/to/DBSubsetter.jar --help

# Once you are comfortable with the syntax and options, run DBSubsetter for real
$ java -jar /path/to/DBSubsetter.jar \
    --schemas schema_1,schema_2 \
    --originDbConnStr "jdbc:<driverName>://<originConnectionString>" \
    --targetDbConnStr "jdbc:<driverName>://<targetConnectionString>" \
    --baseQuery "your_schema.users ::: id % 100 = 0 ::: includeChildren" \
    --keyCalculationDbConnectionCount 8 \
    --dataCopyDbConnectionCount 8
```

3. After DBSubsetter exits, follow vendor-specific instructions for:
    * [Postgres](docs/post_subset_postgres.md)
    * [MySQL](docs/post_subset_mysql.md)
    * [Microsoft SQL Server](docs/post_subset_ms_sql_server.md)


## Contributing

Contributions of all kinds are welcome!

To ask a question, report a bug, or request a feature, please open an
[issue](https://github.com/bluerogue251/DBSubsetter/issues/new).
To contribute code changes, please open a
[pull request](https://github.com/bluerogue251/DBSubsetter/pulls).

Please follow our [code of conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) when contributing.


## Related Projects

DBSubsetter was inspired by
[Jailer](http://jailer.sourceforge.net/home.htm) and
[rdbms-subsetter](https://github.com/18F/rdbms-subsetter).
Other related resources include
[db_subsetter](https://github.com/lostapathy/db_subsetter), 
[DataBee](https://www.databee.com/),
[pg_sample](https://github.com/mla/pg_sample),
[DATPROF](http://www.datprof.com/products/datprof-subset/),
[abridger](https://github.com/freewilll/abridger),
[postgres-subset](https://github.com/BeautifulDestinations/postgres-subset), and
[CA Data Subset](https://docops.ca.com/ca-test-data-manager/4-2/en/provisioning-test-data/subset-production-data).

DBSubsetter is written in
[Scala](https://www.scala-lang.org/) using
[Akka Streams](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/2.5.8/stream/index.html?language=scala),
[Chronicle-Queue](https://github.com/OpenHFT/Chronicle-Queue), and
[scopt](https://github.com/scopt/scopt).
[Slick](http://slick.lightbend.com/) is used for testing.

## License

DBSubsetter is released under the [MIT License](LICENSE.txt).
